>> Kevin Powell: All right, so
we have our reset in place.
One thing, though, that we wanna think
about a little bit, we're gonna be talking
about project maintenance,
one way we can do that is with layers.
So layers is a relatively new feature
in CSS, but it's full baseline now, and
it's something we're gonna
be seeing a lot more of, and
I wanna explore it in this project.
So we can use a layer to sort
of encapsulate our reset.
And I'll, as we go through everything,
we'll explore the benefits of what layers
can do but
I will show a really quick example.
Whereas, if we come in here and
it's really easy to do a layer
just at the top of your code,
you can do an at layer, and then you
just give it whatever name you want.
So I think reset makes sense here.
Open enclosed parentheses,
we can grab everything that's there and
just move it right inside that layer.
Nothing really changes.
The reset will work.
It hasn't impacted anything but what the
cascade layers are doing is the same way
that we have layers within our CSS and
within the cascade, right?
That would go from like, the user agent
styles, the author styles, or, sorry,
the user styles, and then our own styles.
This adds layers within our own CSS file.
The advantage of that is,
say, this role of list,
this has higher specificity on it
because it's a attribute selector.
Attribute selector is
the same as a class selector.
So if I did come into my HTML here,
and let's just come after here, or
we have a list on our page already,
sorry, we have our nav there, or this ul.
So this is saying anything with a role of
list, and this won't be the best example.
But what I'm gonna do is just come here
and say the color should also be red so
we can see it, and we can come on here.
And on that ul,
I can add a role is equal to list, and
we want to get rid of that and
say list is here.
And then we'll add a list item that we
can see that's not a link low there,
so it will come in as red.
And we'll also pump up the font size so
it's a bit easier to see,
font size will be 2rem.
So you can see the hello there is red, cuz
it's getting the color coming from this.On
an attribute selector,
again higher specificity.
If I come down, all the way down
outside of, actually this come up here.
Another thing with layers is that then
you can collapse the entire layer so
you can just hide your reset away
after and it doesn't get in the way.
I could come here and
do an out layer of base, and
I could say that my ul
has a color of green.
And even though this is just
a regular element selector,
it's Overwriting the attribute
selector from before.
And the reason it's doing that is
because this layer comes second.
So just CSS,
things that come after have more they win.
In this case, this layer is coming after,
so this layer is winning.
So it just makes a way that we can
run into less specificity issues.
But again,
you want to plan things out properly.
Properly, because this could also become
something where you have a change you're
trying to make with an ID selector,
and it's not working.
And you don't understand why, and it's
just because you have something in a layer
down below that's an element
selector that's overwriting it.
So you do want to be a little bit careful,
but
I do think that they're
really worth exploring, and
if you organize your layers in a logical
way, then they can be really beneficial.
Because all of a sudden you are less
stressed about coming up with what was
the specificity of this selector.
Maybe now I can use this selector
where there were problems before, and
things like that.
So, obviously we don't
wanna change our colors.
So, I'm gonna take that out and I will
take this out, and I will take that out.
But yeah,
that sets us up nicely with our reset.
And again, you can collapse that down,
so you know where to poke your way
into there unless you need to get in
there, which makes life a bit easier to.
One other option that you can do as well
is you can decide what all your layers
are without putting any code in them,
by doing an @layer and
then just doing a comma
separated list of your layers.
So, you could say reset, base, layout,
components, and
have as many layers as you want.
This is what's setting
the order of the importance.
And then you can have them down
here in any order you want.
The order down here
doesn't matter anymore.
It's this order at the top
that's Setting things up.
So it can be really handy.
You set up the stage, you know the order
of things, and then I like keeping
them here in order, cuz it makes my
life easier to know where things are.
But if ever you have some
weird stuff going on, or
you need to have a different layer
down below, you can do that.
Cuz you could also, this doesn't make
sense, but you could have a reset.
Here as well, and
have code here and code here, but
my base layer would still win,
because the reset comes after the base or
before the base, so
the base is always gonna win.
I wouldn't again, it gets complicated.
It gets weird doing this.
I wouldn't really recommend it but
just want to say a little
bit on how that works.
There's also sublayers.
I'll talk about that more once
we've built out the project more.
It's not something I think we need
on a project of this scale, but
you can have layers inside of layers.
But again, then you start running into
like the complexity of the whole thing.
If you have a good grasp and
a good organization,
the sublayers could be useful,
but on a project of this size,
I don't think there's
a huge Which benefit to it.
I'm not gonna have the declared one at
the top, just because I want to force
myself to have them in a bit of
a logical order on the page.
I think it's a bit easier, but
it's a really common practice to declare
the order of them at the top of your file.
So if you wanna leave that there,
you can do that, and
we'll talk more about what layers are and
what they aren't as we go through it.
As well, just cuz there's certain things
you definitely don't wanna use layers for,
even though it's sort of
people's first instinct to do so.
>> Speaker 1: Can you explain the
difference with specificity inheritance?
I'm sure layers isn't inheritance.
It's more specificity, right?
>> Kevin Powell: Yeah, okay, so yeah,
it's a really good question actually
because inheritance is a big part.
Layers yes, okay,
the difference between specificity and
inheritance with in terms of layers.
Layers won't impact inheritance, just
because, if something's being inherited,
it's like, and
the big thing there is your color, right?
If we come out here and
they say body is color purple.
Purple, when I do that,
most of the text changes to purple
because it's inheriting that color.
But my links aren't getting it,
my links are still blue, or
maybe we'll make it green,
just so it stands out more.
The links are still a blue color because
those have another style that's actually
applied directly exactly on the link.
So as long as it's being like, yeah,
the layers won't have any impact
on the inheritance of something.
Because they're just inheriting it from
wherever that color is coming from,
no matter what the specificity of it is.
And then if you were to change
the color of the links,
like, say, in our reset,
we change we could have a COVID.
Color is green, and they'll become green.
And then I could even
come down then here and
say that my A color is yellow,
which we won't really be able to see.
ut we can see they sort of disappear,
just because this is overriding
the style that was in my reset.
So we've broken out of having
inheritance with those and
it's just about specificity
in those cases.